# Various Minor Scripts

I prefer using tiny scripts to aliases because it saves me going around to all my open terminals and re-sourcing .profile, and I have them available from contexts that aren't my main shell. This is the collection of those scripts that aren't machine-specific.

Fair warning: these are [shop built jigs](http://robnapier.net/go-is-a-shop-built-jig) and may lack niceties like polite usage strings when given bad parameters. 

## The Scripts

### backup

Perform an rsync backup to 192.168.1.254:backup/$HOST (hardcoded, sorry).

Usage: `backup home` or `backup full`

### bringwindow

Use vmenu to choose from a list of existent X clients to switch to, or bring to the current workspace.

Usage: `bringwindow -a` to switch to window, or `bringwindow -R` to bring the window to your current workspace.

### drawer

Manages 'drawer terminal' type programs, like a generalized version of `guake` or so.

Usage: `drawer NAME [SIDE WIDTH HEIGHT COMMAND]`

- `NAME` is a symbolic name for the drawer. It should be a valid POSIX filename.
- `SIDE` is the side of the screen to attach the drawer to. Valid values are `left`, `right`, `top`, and `bottom`.
- `WIDTH` and `HEIGHT` may be either a size in pixels or a percentage of screen size (`84%`) specifying the dimensions of the window to create.
- `COMMAND` is the command with arguments which will actually create the window.

When run, `drawer` looks in `/tmp/drawers.wids/` for a file called `NAME` containing an X window id. If found, that window's `hidden` EWMH hint will be toggled. If the file is not found, `COMMAND` is executed and the resulting window is positioned according `SIDE`, `WIDTH`, and `HEIGHT` and then focused, and the windows X window id is written to `/tmp/drawers.wids/$NAME` to allow future toggling.

Drawer requires `xwininfo` (probably included in your distro's X11 utils package), [wmctrl](http://tomas.styblo.name/wmctrl/) and [my fork of xtoolwait](https://github.com/lharding/xtoolwait) (although I have a pull request pending to merge the changes), and, optionally, [xdotool](http://www.semicomplete.com/projects/xdotool/) (to prod certain window managers into making the created window floating).

### journal

Launch gvim on a new file under `~/writing/journal` with a name generated by the `logdate` command.

### logdate

Output the current time in `YYYYMMDD:HHMM.SS (epoch+UNIXTIME)` format.

### mknote

Use zsh `vared` and `logdate` to append a timestamped line to `~/writing/notes.txt`.

### noteloop

Just runs `mknote` in a loop, for e.g. keeping a drawer term to collect and show notes.

### rclip

Remote clipboard with logging; replaces Pocket, Pinboard, etc with a very small shell script.

Requires `ssh` (public key auth highly recommended) and `xclip` to use clipboard manipulation funcionality.

To use, put in `PATH` on each host you wish to use it on, and also on a net-accessible server, and update the `RSH_CMD` variable at the head of the script with the `ssh` command necessary to log into your server, and `touch rclip.clip; touch rclip.log`. Then:

- `rclip copy [-a] [METADATA] SELECTION`: store the contents of SELECTION to your `rclip` server.
- `rclip paste SELECTION`: read the contents of the `rclip` clip from your server into SELECTION.
- `rclip put [-a] [METADATA]`: read from `STDIN` and store to the `rclip` clip on your server.
- `rclip get`: print the contents of the  `rclip` clip from your server to `STDOUT`.
- `rclip tail`: follow the `rclip` log, printing each new clip as it's stored.
- `rclip io: `STDOUT` prints the output of `rclip tail`, while each line passed to `STDIN` is posted as a new clip. Lines are read using the `read` command with no `-r` argument, so newlines can be escaped using `\`.

`SELECTION` is one of the standard X selection names as understood by `xclip`: `primary`, `secondary`, `clipboard`. Defaults to `clipboard`.

`METADATA` is a string that will be inserted into the item header alongside the datestamp when logging. This can be any number of shell parameters, or a single string.

The `-a` argument to `copy` and `put` causes the data to be appended to the current clip, rather than replacing it (and likewise, appended to the current log entry, rather than opening a new one).

`rclip` also accepts a `-c CLIPNAME` argument before the operation, e.g. `rclip -c foo put ...`. If supplied, this specifies an alternate clip to use. This can be any filename-safe string and is inserted into the name of the clip and log files, so that instead of reading/writing from e.g. `rclip.clip`, issuing `rclip -c foo put` will write to `rclip.foo.log`. **Note the potential security implication here:** it's theoretically possible to use this option to cause `rclip` to write to any file your user can access.

`rclip` uses many short-lived `ssh` connections and is much better and significantly faster when used with public-key authentication and [SSH Connection Sharing](https://puppetlabs.com/blog/speed-up-ssh-by-reusing-connections).

### sesh (Session Helper)

`sesh` is a simple script to help restore your session state when using a dynamic window manager. For me the big use case is that I use individual browser windows managed by my window manager rather than browser tabs, so when I have to reboot, log in/out, etc, it's a pain moving the windows back to the desks I had them on.

To use:

- Before logout, shutdown, etc, invoke `sesh` with all your windows still open. A list of window names and associated desktop numbers will be saved at `~/.cache/sesh.state`.
- After login and reloading apps, browser sessions, etc, invoke `sesh load`, and it will move all you windows to the desktops specified in `~/.cache/sesh.state`.
- There is a function `munge` at the top of the script that is used to process window titles to eliminate volatile elements like GMail's message count or Slack's unread indicator. This is necessary since windows must be identified by title substring.

### scut (Super | Simple | Suckless) cut.

An improved version of the POSIX `cut` command.

Usage: `scut FIELDSPEC,[FIELDSPEC[,...]] [-dDELIMITER] [-jJOINER]`

`FIELDSPEC` is either an integer, or a range of the form `n-m`. If it is an integer, that field (zero-based) from each line of `STDIN` will be printed to `STDOUT`. If it is a range, fields `n` (inclusive) through `m` (exclusive) will be printed. `n` also allows the special field separator `^` which causes all fields from the beginning of the line until field `m` to be printed, verbatim, without replacing field separators with field joiners. Similarly, `m` supports the special value `$` which prints from field `n` through the end of the line, verbatim.

`DELIMITER` is any regex supported by the Pyton 2 regex module and is used to split input lines into fields.
`JOINER` is the string used to join fields together in the output. Escape sequences such as '\t' will be processed into their represented characters.

Unlike the `cut` command, fields specified multiple times will be printed multiple times.

WARNING: contains python. A Golang version is in the works.

### shistory

Use `vmenu` to select a line from `STDIN` (assumed to be output from the `history` command) and print it to `STDOUT`. Intended to be used from your shell's `readline` to place a selection from your history on the command line for editing.

### tman

Run `man` with the given arguments, and display the outputs in a new terminal window.

### vmenu

Run `dmenu` in vertical format, with multi-token matching, and the given arguments.

### www-browser

Invoke `$BROWSER` with the given arguments.
